they have played us for absolute fools, making us get close to 100 contact damage bosses for a middling dps output. melee sucks, having probably the highest skill floor and ceiling in the game. "oh, let me no-hit this boss with my copper shortsword (optimal dps) while staying within 2 tiles of the boss at all times!!! (These people are insane).
Whilst fine in Journey, Normal, or even Expert, it's just a little too much for Master mode. The defense increase doesn't help nearly as much in theory as in practice, as playing literally any other class helps you to not get hit in the first place. The theoretical damage you can output is non-existent, as, which may surprise you, dying will output your dps to a negative number.
Even if you do dodge or no-hit, you won't always be able to hit the boss on every player.attackCD frames, lowering your dps even further. Comparatively, if you're not melee, you can just run away and click on the boss's face for optimal dps.

Well, I've come to schizo-post. Take {mod_name}. Allows the crafting of the Hero's Insignia (cringe accessory name tbh) by sacrificing your starter copper shortsword (or tin) at a furnace. Reworks melee as a sorta 'catch-all', changing your currently held melee weapon into 3 attack types:
Slash, Pierce, or Blunt, depending on the item's useAnimation (roughly the item's use time).
Each of these has a unique attack animation, replacing vanilla's sucky default animation. If you want it anyways, you can alt function (right click) for vanilla behaviour. (Yes, you can hold down right click when applicable for auto reuse. I searched it on google and a forum said you couldn't make that happen, but I sure showed them, hah!)
Due to this, melee weapons that shoot projectiles on swing won't do that anymore. Instead, I had to manually recreate the projectile swing code so that it triggers upon hitting an enemy because melee is extremely hardcoded.
If you don't like this change, well, too bad. Why are you playing melee if you're just going to use the Starfury from a distance? We have a thing for that, it's called Ranged/Mage/Summoner.
Additionally, melee weapons (while held) will swap their melee damage for True Melee damage! Practically speaking, no difference, but cosmetically speaking, it's pretty damn cool.
Oh yeah, they also get x2 damage and a whole lot more use time (though the latter doesn't display), so things come down more to timing than spam.
I've reworked '''armor penetration''', where flat values will make you deal up to (value x2) more damage to enemies with (value defense), in addition to an innate 200% defense piercing (because you are literally hitting an enemy full on with a sword. You aren't plinking at them with a wooden arrow 20 tiles away).
There are a few conditions for these changes. Obviously, its gotta be a melee weapon. Pick, Hammer, or Axe is a deal breaker. Weapons that are purely projectiles or don't show their sprite at all aren't affected. (technically speaking, shortswords are projectiles, so they're unchanged). And the rest are just common sense conditions.

I've also added a few more swords. Y'know, something to do other than just wait around for the other players to grind their weapons while you sit there in your Spamton Neo Certified:TM: {{Night's Edge}} progression.
Seriously, most mods suck at adding melee weapons. If it ain't stronger than current Night's Edge progression weapon, then don't bother. I was playing this mod the other day, and the reward for defeating this one boss was a 20 damage arkhalis-short range melee weapon. Meanwhile they give you a 37 damage average speed bow. Case in point.
You spend most of prehardmode suffering, get a huge power spike when you get Night's Edge for all of 1 hour, and it inevitability plateaus off and you go right back to suffering. Most other swords are mediocre at any other point in time, whether it be the weapon itself or the weapon in comparison with the other classes. I think Zenith is the one exception, but hello, the game is over at that point.
So you have all of these biomes, right? Let's add a sword for them. But it'd be lame to just give you a sword for exploring a biome. So let's pair them off in twos or threes. That way, we don't have to make as many swords, and we also get those cool bonus points for yin-yang biome shenanigans. Amazing!
Well, now that we have these swords, what do we do with them? Well, hmm... Er, uh, hm. Guess I'll add a Night's Edge alternative. Collect all these swords for an epic sword! There are a lot of swords though, and Night's Edge requires only 4, so let's make it slightly easier. Each sword belongs to one of four archetypes, and you only need one sword of each archetype to craft this psuedo Night's Edge.
So if you can't find a biome, or just want to explore a different one, we have variability and failsafes! So now you don't have to spend all your time looking for every single material in the game just so you can get an accessory that increases your damage by 20% and is practically necessary because the mod balances the game around having it ;))).
Also, we can put into play the Slash, Pierce, Blunt dynamic here. Tie-ins and callbacks! But what should we name the sword? Hmm... oh, I know! Hegemony! The- the- the name of th- snork- the nam- wowzers, that sure was a Hegemony, wasn't it?
Anyway, having a straight up better Night's Edge is kinda cringe, and most other mods use Night's Edge for something. So now its shimmerable into Night's Edge. And it should be used for something too. So let's make it an early access to Night's Edge's upgrades. I'm kinda on the fence about this part, but we'll see how it goes.

Gonna rant about coding. Hitbox shenaniagans and animation shenanigans are very hardcoded. Even hitting enemeis is hardcoded. I had to put in a workaround because the game sets your attack cooldown and you can't do anything about it. Hitboxes are just rectangles, so good luck with rotations and sword sprites there. Projectiles, however, can do whatever they want and mess with everything.

These config options suck. You can edit the damage to be 1.5x, but not any lower than that (because I hate you and you should be ashamed of yourself to even think of making melee any worse).
Although you can edit the use time conditions for weapons, so if you want all slash or pierce or blunt, you can do that (because I love you and you should have the option to have preferences suited to you).

If I were to remake this mod (ahahaha, i will never), I would probably change all this behind-the-scenes melee code to work with projectiles, rather than the game's melee handler. The game basically hardcodes melee for you, so using projectiles instead is a lot more flexible. Heck, some melee weapons in the game are already "projectiles" (looking at you, shortswords).